Computer Networking (CSCI-330)
Spring 2025 – Term Group Project
P2P File Synchronization Application
Purpose
The objectives of this project are:
1. To promote group work and the sharing of ideas and tasks.
2. To promote life-long learning.
3. To empower students with the opportunity to realize that they are capable of attaining
skill sets on their own with some effort.
4. To design and synthesize a P2P network application that requires putting together many
of the concepts and elements learned throughout this semester.
Introduction and Challenge
Many file synchronization applications are available (Dropbox, OneDrive, Google Drive, etc.).
File synchronization ensures that the same file is accessed across many different devices and
remains consistent and up to date. File synchronization (henceforth called sync or syncing) has
become an important part of how we work and play. File syncing applications usually utilize
cloud infrastructure to save enterprise and other data. These applications generally follow a
client-server architecture, using the observer pattern that utilizes a push mechanism to inform
clients of changes.
Such an architecture requires considerable resources and infrastructure. Decentralizing the file
synchronization process eliminates the complexity of managing a centralized service and
infrastructure and improves the integrity and safety of files by distributing files to peers. Using a
decentralized architecture can also be significantly improved. In this project, we will not be
concerned with building a secure decentralized file synchronization application, although doing
so will earn a significant extra credit (see Project Requirements below).
Your challenge is to design a P2P file-syncing application. The application needs to be able
to, at a minimum, obtain the list of all devices currently in the network as well as the directories
that are being shared or synchronized across peer devices. It should also be able to react to any
file changes in synchronized folders. Strategies should be adopted to deal with different use cases



Explanation of how to run the code:

1. Start off by running the server, then run the client.
2. type in a name for the device you are on client side so that the server can register you. If you want to test multiple clients, you need seperate devices for each client.
3. once registered, you can view the list of clients in the client or switch to the files tab and look at the shared file list.
4. Click the browse button to find a file you want to share, then click share file for it to show up in the shared file list. (There can be issues with certain files where their file size cannot be converted into a 8-bit int number)
5. After sharing the file, another client can download that shared file and the file will go to the folder created by the code. You can change the download destination if you want to.
6. To see the file sync, shared a file and change an aspect of it, like the name or some of the content within the file, then the server will announce the change and then you can click the shared file again and download the new revision.
7. Keep in mind the files shared cannot be unshared unless the client or server shuts down.
